So we're gonna get to the point
where we're gonna run into,
is this an algorithm or
is this the data structure.
Well it uses the data structure, and
then performs an algorithm on
top of the data structure.
So this becomes a more common
thing we're gonna see.
So is linked list a data structure or
an algorithm?
Well, you could argue that the insertion
is the algorithmic side of it,
the actual setup is the data
structure itself, right?
We can make these arguments
bla bla bla bla bla.
I'm not gonna be pedantic.
Call it whatever you want,
I'm not gonna be offended.
So, our first data structure on top of
a linked list is going to be a queue.
This is one of the most common data
structures I have implemented.
I've implemented a queue.
Just this year, I had to shove
video down into a video decoder.
And the only way to have a buffer
to be able to do this and
make sure you insert it in the correct
order is first in first out and
what does that that's, that's cute, right?
And I was using it in C two, I felt
a little bit smarter than everybody else.
To writing C linked lists,
it felt very good.
So let's go over a queue.
So we know what a linked list is now.
A queue is just a specific
implementation of a linked list.
So let's pretend that we
have a pointer to head and
we'll do the exact same setup so that
way I can say, Bravo, Charlie and Delta.
Let's see Bravo, Charlie, this is fun.
I just decided to do this now,
there we go.
So this of course is our tail,
this of course is our head.
And so if we want to insert in a queue,
or before we go to that,
a queue is simply a FIFO structure,
a first in first out,
this is what the Brits call a line, right?
And so they call it a queue.
We call it a line.
That's all it really is.
So if we wish to insert into a line,
what do you do at a carnival?
What do you do at anything,
you get into the back of the line?
So just like that, if we want to insert,
say, E, what we're gonna do is
we're gonna have D, we're gonna
have our current tail point to E.
Then we're gonna update
our tail to point to E.
Does that make makes sense?
So it'd be kind of a two operation.
You could imagine I'll just write
this an actual type script,
this dot tail these dot next
equals E then we just go.
This dot tail equals E.
So that makes sense.
We break this link, we are now
pointing to the end of the list.
Awesome, this makes sense.
But a popping operation,
we don't pop from the tail.
We pop from the head.
Now also notice that I'm
using a Singly Linked List.
We don't even need a doubly linked list.
We don't even need that
extra computation time.
We don't need that extra
property storage requirement.
We need a very minimal amount of stuff.
So, ahead if we want to pop it,
we do the exact same thing.
We would first set head to point to be,
so we're doing the reverse operation.
Head points to be, we'd save off of
reference of head of course, right?
So we'd have some sort of consth head,
equals the cont head right?
We point head to B and then we can just
simply take the previous the old one,
remove the link, and
then return out the value.
Remember, this is a node
based data structure,
which means we have a container around
the value that you hand the cue.
So therefore we have to do container
A dot value and return that out.
So just to write it out just to be
complete we'd go head equals head I'm just
gonna write this out without using this
and all that you can apply this you,
can apply const.
And then I would do h.next equals null and
then of course Oopsies,
we wouldn't want to do that.
That is the worst possible operation.
We'd wanna go head equals head.next,
then set our saved off
reference to null and
then just simply return out h.value.
Does that make sense?
Just simply move it forward, return it.
Yeah, so if I did it the other way around,
we'd lose the value then.
You know your whole queue would suck and
there you go,
you lose all the values don't do that.
All right, that's really all a queue
is it's actually shockingly simple
because what it's doing is constraining
what you can do with a queue and
by constraining what it can do.
What kind of performance
are you getting out of queue,
when you actually end
what's the performance?
Well, we don't traverse anything, right?
We don't go over any sort of list.
It's not based on how big
of a value you give me,
it's simply based on the fact
that I have to set one thing.
One by one next value to a new node and
I have to update where my tail points to
those are two constant
time operations right and
creating a node itself is constant time
operation in the sense that yeah It may
require me to go get memory may require
me to go out to the heap and grab memory.
But we consider those kinds of constant
time operations when doing this.
And all it requires us to do is just be
able to point those new values elsewhere.
That's it.
So it's a constant time operation,
pushing into a queue is constant, popping
from a queue is the exact same thing but
just in reverse, it's constant.
And so fantastic.
We now have have reduced what we can
do and we've made sure that it's very,
very fast and it performs a specific
algorithm, first in first out.
It's that simple, all right?
It's that simple.
And so of course,
there's also usually one other operation
that comes with queues often, which is
peak have the ability to see what is my
first element without popping it off.
Of course, that would just be hey,
head dot value, right?
That's pretty much as
straightforward as it gets.
And so of course, up I already said this
part we're entering into the world where
we constrain things from here on out,
you'll just notice that most things
are constrained intentionally, such that
we get very good performance out of it and
you can only use it in a certain way.
Yes it is technically a generalized linked
list underneath the hood often with
a queue, but
you can only use it in a certain way.